Page 1 of 97  TABLE OF CONTENTS MESSAGE FROM M.D…..10 COMPLIANCE MESSAGE FROM M.D.12 ANTI-BRIBERY SUPERVISOR'S MESSAGE14 CCO MESSAGE 16 1. Purpose .18 2. Our Values .. 18  a. Trust…...18 b. Quality..18 c. Technology.…..18 d. Ethics and Compliance..18 e. Humanity..18 f. Environment...18 g. Society.18 3. Commitment….…..20 4.     Compliance Moto.20 5. Company Profile…20 6. Management Role  20 6.1 Role Clarity  20 6.2 Mission Sharing  22 6.3 System Building 22 6.4 HRD . 22 6.5 Positive Industrial Relationship  22 7. COMPANY POLICIES AND PROCEDURES . 24 7.1 Employment Status  24 7.2 Leave Rules and General Rules . 26 7.3 Attendance, Permission & Late Coming  34 7.4 Attendance Allowance . 34 7.5 Company Uniform Rules .. 34 7.6 Change of Address and personal details  36 7.7 Grievance Procedure  36 
Page 3 of 97   7.8 Holidays - National & Festival . .36     7.9 Identity Cards….…38 7.10 Recruitment & Selection  38 7.11 Induction . 40 7.12 Performance Appraisal .. 40 7.13 Annual Salary Reviews and Promotion  40 7.14 Retirement . 42 • Provident Fund .. 42 • Gratuity  42 • Leave Encashment: .. 42 7.15 Training & Development  44 7.16 Termination/Separation  44 7.17 Transfer  46 7.18 Travel Scheme  46 7.19 Work Schedule: . 46 7.20 Out Door Duty  48 7.21 General Rules  48 8. OTHER IMPORTANT THINGS TO REMEMBER  50 8.1 Notice Boards . 50 8.2 Company Telephone/Fax/E-mails . 50 8.3 Usage of Mobile Phone  52 8.4 Material Movement .. 52 8.5 Smoking Rules . 52 8.6 Security Systems & Procedures  52 8.7 Solicitations/Distribution of literature  54 8.8 Selling of Goods and Services  54 9. FACILITIES, BENEFITS AND WELFARE . 56 9.1 Loan Scheme  56 9.2 Mediclaim Insurance. 56 9.3 Group Personal Accident Insurance  56     
Page 5 of 97  9.4 Term Insurance Policy  …..58 9.5 Superannuation Policy   58 9.6 Annual Health Check - Up .. .58 9.7 Annual Picnic/Get togeter . .58 9.8 Sports and Recreation Facilities  .58 9.9 Transportation Services  58 9.10 Canteen Facility/Subsidized food .. 60 9.11 Interest Concession on Housing Loan .. 60 9.12 Leave Travel Assistance (LTA) . 60 9.13 Marriage Gift  60 9.14 Diwali .. .60     9.15 Birthday Celebration …...62     9.16 Donation Box ….62     9.17 Tuition Fees..62   10.  WORK IMPROVEMENT/MOTIVATIONAL PRACTICES  62 10.1 Employee Suggestion Scheme  62 10.2 Employee Council committee /Safety Committee/Transport Committee .. 62 10.3 Best Suggestion Award .. 64 10.4 Open Door Policy & Town Hall Meeting .. 64 10.5 Best Operator of the year . 64 10.6 Long Association Award Policy  64 10.7 Immediate MD SAN Award .. 64 10.8 SGA scheme Policy (Small group activities)  64 10.9 MEAI News Letter/ COMMUNIQUE .. 64 10.10 Power Harassment Guidelines…..….…66 11. OTHER RULES AND SYSTEMS . 66 11.1 Health, Safety & Environment Management System (ISO 14001:2015/ ISO 45001)66 11.2 Quality Management System (IATF16949:2016) .. 68     
Page 7 of 97  12.  CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY .. 68    12.1 Corporate Social Responsibility..….68 13. GRAPHICS STANDARD POLICY .. 70 14. SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY.. 70 15. ROLE OF TRADE UNION  70 16. INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM .. 70 17. MEAI COMPLIANCE CHART . 70 18. COMPANY ETHICS POLICY  74 19. WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY 74 20. ANTI- BRIBERY POLICY . 74 21. SOCIAL RISK POLICY .. 74 22.ANTI-TRUST/ANTI-MONOPOLY GUIDELINE .. 76 23. LITIGATION POLICY  76 24. HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY ….76 25. “33” SAFETY RULES  76 26. CODES OF DISCIPLINE & ADMINISTRATION OF DISCIPLINARY ACTION  76 26.1 Code of Discipline  82 26.2 Administration of Disciplinary Action .. 96 27. EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT  96             
Page 9 of 97                       MESSAGE FROM M.D  Dear Employee  We are currently operating our business in highly uncertain environment, such as the fears of Recession of the global economy, shortage of semiconductors, soaring material prices, situation in Ukraine, therefore, it is necessary to build strong and flexible organisation (as Bamboo tree); so that we remain always ready to overcome any challenge, which may face in our business.    To make MEAI stronger and flexible in new normal, we should sincerely work towards following basic points in our work culture:  1. Safety/ Health/compliance at first  2. Quality is our priority as always 3. Productivity improvement & customer delivery is prime 4. Improvement of overall work efficiency by following & improving rules 5. Promotion of 5S      Yoshinori Shigemi Managing Director                   
Page 11 of 97   COMPLIANCE MESSAGE FROM M.D  Our automotive equipment technologies are at the core of many general, hybrid and next-generation clean-energy vehicles made by the world's major automobile manufacturers. In addition to supplying electric power-controller systems, Motor generator unit, we deliver a wide variety of cutting-edge and high quality automobile components for greater amenity, safety and ecology.  11 years ago, Automotive Equipment Group (AEG) was inspected by the Fair-Trade Commission for alleged antitrust violations. One of the backgrounds and factors that led to this on-site inspection was the lack of “ethical and legal compliance awareness”. But even in the case of improper conduct with car audio products for Europe discovered in Nov ’20 and this time of improper quality cases, similar backgrounds and factors were found. Despite our efforts to ensure ethics and legal compliance, it can be said that it was not enough. In order to regain the trust of the society and customers, we must persistently and steadily instil through ethics and legal compliance.  We at MEAI would like to make our organisation stronger and flexible to overcome any challenge pose to us by this uncertain environment by following basics of Compliances, safety, health of employees, quality at first, improvement in work efficiency by following our rules and amending them as required and putting focus on 5S.  We as a Corporate believe in contributing to society & corporate growth simultaneously. We always believe to address issues of current society such as climate change, depletion of resources, poverty, labour, and human rights etc.   Further, also to survive in society and in order to grow strong company, each employee should understand the importance of compliance and it is essential to raise the awareness.  We at MEAI have focused on E-Learning program. We share knowledge such as what to do and follow through this learning so that we can become much stronger and flexible organisation in these uncertain times.  Yoshinori Shigemi Managing Director             
Page 13 of 97    ANTI-BRIBERY SUPERVISOR’S MESSAGE Our code of business ethics outlines the culture of honesty and integrity that MEAI upholds as Corporate. We adopt a zero-tolerance approach for giving or receiving bribes or corrupt payments in any form directly or indirectly. MEAI does not distinguish offences committed by its employee or anyone else acting for and on behalf of the company. MEAI will not hesitate to pursue any corrupt practices to the relevant legal framework. Everyone is requested to read, understand and comply with the policy; Ignorance of rules is no excuse.  The Board of Directors and I expect each employee of MEAI to pay attention to all internal rules strictly in the process of carrying out their duties.   Thank you very much for your effort in meeting our business requirements with uncompromising ethics and integrity Best Regards Mukesh Kumar Gupta       
Page 15 of 97  CCO MESSAGE  We at MEAI follow our Corporate and top Management guidelines and ensure Respect for Employees, Stakeholders, customers, consumers, business partners and Society. Compliance should be the basis of our efforts and I am expecting all our employees to fully understand the contents of Code of Conduct, follow our Compliance Motto and integrate that awareness into daily business activities. Our actions, words and behaviours do matter, regardless of where we live or the job we do, when we do what’s right—in other words, when we act with the highest integrity—we live our Core Values, and show we truly care for the people we serve and respect the people with whom we work. I would like to thank you for doing your part to carry on our Core Values and fulfil the obligations of our Code of Conduct & Ethics. Together, these critical tools help each of us forge a positive path to better serve all our key stakeholders.  Best Regards Parmod Kumar Arora            
Page 17 of 97  1. PURPOSE  We, the Mitsubishi Electric Group, will contribute to the realization of a vibrant and sustainable society through continuous technological innovation and ceaseless creativity.      2. OUR VALUES  a. TRUST  We develop relationships based on strong mutual trust with all stakeholders including society, customers, shareholders, suppliers, and employees working together.  b. QUALITY We ensure the satisfaction of society and customers by providing products and services of the best quality.  c. TECHNOLOGY We provide society with new value by enhancing technology and onsite capabilities.  d. ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE We act with high ethical standards and comply with laws and social norms.  e. HUMANITY We prioritize health and safety, promote diversity, and respect personalities and human rights.  f. ENVIRONMENT We strive to protect and improve the global environment, doing so in harmony with nature.  g. SOCIETY We contribute to the development of a better society as a corporate citizen.           
Page 19 of 97  3. COMMITMENT    "Changes for the Better" represents the Mitsubishi Electric Group’s attitude to “always strive to achieve something better”, as we continue to change and grow. Each one of us shares a strong will and passion to continuously aim for change, reinforcing our commitment to creating “an even better tomorrow”.  4. COMPLIANCE MOTO  The Compliance Moto, as mentioned below, is part of MEAI Ethics Policy which is in line with MELCO Code of Conduct:  “Always Act with Integrity” shall be moto of all of us, Integrity means strong will and attitude to persist in doing the right things and having character traits such as being fair, being honest, taking responsibility of one’s behaviour and respecting others. It shall reflect in our daily actions and decisions especially when we are facing difficulties, when we are tempted and having inclination to walk the wrong path, we should remember this motto “Always Act with Integrity”   5. COMPANY PROFILE  Mitsubishi Electric Automotive India Private Ltd., (MEAI) is a 100% subsidiary of M/s Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, (MELCO) Japan.  The Company is engaged in the manufacturing and trading of parts, which are part of electrical and/or fuel management systems of four wheelers.  The Company is supplying these items to the leading Indian four-wheeler manufacturers. The parts supplied to vehicle manufacturers have a significant role in meeting stringent emission norms.    6. MANAGEMENT ROLE   6.1  ROLE CLARITY ▪ Job Clarity & Accountability          
Page 21 of 97   6.2  MISSION SHARING  ▪ Organization’s Goals. ▪ Nation Building Role. ▪ Follow core values. ▪ Concern towards customers and other stakeholders. ▪ Need to synchronize ▪ Individual’s goals with organizational goals.  6.3 CULTURE BUILDING ▪ Work norms  ▪ Supervision ▪ Work pressure at all levels ▪ Reinforcement systems ▪ Conducive working conditions ▪ Team building. ▪ Human Rights and Values  6.4 HRD HR Department Mission:  To build a competitive and healthy organisation by effective utilisation of human resources and contributing to the following areas: ▪ To create a good culture and work life balance.  ▪ To ensure 100% statutory and all other compliance. ▪ To adhere Environment Management System in line with Corporate and other requirements.  ▪ To maintain a high morale and better human relations by employee skill enhancement and knowledge up-gradation. ▪ To recognize and satisfy individual reasonable needs and group goals. ▪ To support and encourage employees and their family through welfare schemes and employee /family engagement programs. ▪ To contribute to the betterment of society  6.5 POSITIVE INDUSTRIAL RELATIONSHIP ▪ Sense of partnership ▪ Productive & dynamic relations. 
Page 23 of 97  7. COMPANY POLICIES AND PROCEDURES  7.1 EMPLOYMENT STATUS  Employees are broadly categorized as indicated hereunder: a) Permanent Employee. b) Probationary Employee. c) Temporary Workman. d) Casual Employee. e) Trainee f) Apprentice g) Contractor Employee h) Graduate Engineer Trainee (GET) i) Management Trainee. j) Fixed Term Employee.  The classification of employees based on employment status is as follows:  a) PERMANENT EMPLOYEE: is who has been engaged on a permanent basis against a permanent post and includes any person who has satisfactorily completed probationary period of six months or extended period of probation. They are however expected to discharge their responsibilities in accordance with the company standards on performance and work behavior.   b) PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE: is a newly hired employee for a permanent position and is under probationary employment for six months or extended period of probation. Management will evaluate and/or appraise the overall performance and behaviors of an employee to find his/her suitability for the job.  ▪ If the performance standards and other factors are met, his employment status becomes regular/permanent at the end of probationary period. ▪ If performance standards and other factors are not met, the company reserves the right either to extend the probationary period or terminate the employment of said employee.  c) TEMPORARY WORKMAN: is a workman who has been engaged for a work, which is temporary in nature and likely to be finished within a limited period or a workman who has been appointed for a stipulated period under a contract of employment.  d) CASUAL EMPLOYEE: is one, whose employment is of a casual nature, he is entitled for statutory benefits. He may not be entitled to the benefits granted to a permanent employee.  e) TRAINEE’S: Trainee workman is a Learner other than a Learner appointed as an Apprentice under Apprentice Act, 1961 and who is engaged to undergo training in a   
Page 25 of 97   job trade or a craft for a specified period expressed in the contract of engagement, irrespective of his / her being paid stipend for the trainee as specified by the management which shall not be below the minimum wages. In the event of unsatisfactory performance by a trainee of which the Management shall be the sole and binding judge, traineeship may be curtailed or extended or terminated without assigning any reason thereof. All the trainees will be abiding by the terms & conditions of Trainee’s Scheme of the company. The management has no obligation to provide regular employment on completion of training.   f) APPRENTICE: Apprentice means a trainee who is governed by the provisions of the Apprentice Act 1961. g) CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEE: In case of assignments not directly linked with manufacturing process the same can be assigned to an outside contractor. Persons deployed by the contractor will be on his rolls and contractor will be responsible for meeting all statutory requirements.   h) GRADUATE ENGINEER TRAINEE (GET): These are fresh engineers (or very little experience which needs re-training) who are hired as GET’s and trained in respective department before they are regularized/ absorbed in a specific department subject to the availability of position. i) MANAGEMENT TRAINEE: These are fresh full time MBA/CA/CS or similar professional qualification who are hired as Management trainees in a specific department. j) FIXED TERM EMPLOYMENT: These are fixed Term Employee which is recruited for a specified period of time to perform a specific temporary task.  7.2 LEAVE RULES AND GENERAL RULES   7.2.1 CASUAL LEAVE  • Permanent Employees including Probationers, trainees & casual workers are eligible for Casual Leave at the rate of 08 days in a Calendar Year.  • Employees joining during the calendar year are eligible for Casual Leave on Pro-rata basis (for the period from the date of joining to 31st December.  • Casual Leave cannot be availed for less than half a day.  • Generally Casual Leave cannot be availed for more than 2 days at one occasion.   • Prefix / Suffix:  Casual Leave can be either prefixed or suffixed (but not both) to a Compensatory Off or Holiday or Weekly Off. Casual Leave cannot be interposed with any of the Holiday / Weekly off.   • Combination: Casual Leave cannot be combined either with sick leave or Earned leave.   
Page 27 of 97   • Casual Leave (CL) cannot be accumulated. • Un-availed casual leave will lapse for Jr. Executive & above level employees and for others the same will be encashed on gross salary in the month of January. • On Resignation / On Termination: When an employee leaves the Organization on resignation or termination, subject to his /her date of relieving, the excess availed Casual Leave if any will be deducted from his/her final settlement. In case of below Jr. Exec/Jr Eng level personnel, if there is CL balance in the account, it will be encashed in their F&F settlement on gross salary.  7.2.2 ESI LEAVES  • Employee covered under the ESI Scheme, will be governed as per ESI Act and regulations.  7.2.3 SICK LEAVES  • Permanent Employees including Probationers, trainees & casuals are eligible for Sick Leave at the rate of 08 days in a Calendar Year.   • Employees joining during the calendar year are eligible for sick leave on Pro-rata basis (for the period from the date of joining to 31st December).  • In case employee is on leave due to sickness for three or more days then the same is to be supported by medical certificate regarding fitness from a Registered Medical Practioner (RMP)/MBBS/DHMS Doctor).  • The intervening holidays shall be treated as part of sick leave.  • Combination: sick leave can be combined with Earned & maternity Leaves.  • Where an Employee is covered under ESI Act he will not be entitled for dual benefit of ESI Act & Sick leaves. In case of sickness, medical fitness certificate from ESI hospital is required before being allowed to re-join duty.  • Sick leave can be accumulated maximum up to 30 days for all levels. In excess of this limit it will lapse for Jr. Supervisor & above level employees and for others (below Jr. Supervisor level) the same will be encashed in the month of January on Basic Wages.   
Page 29 of 97  7.2.4 EARNED LEAVE (EL)  • One EL for every 11.6 working days (employee has worked on these days) subject to maximum 24 EL during any calendar year shall be credited during the subsequent year. If a person joins service during the year, he/she is also entitled for EL and the same will be calculated at the above-mentioned rate on pro-rata basis.  • Earned Leave shall be applied 7 days in advance and got sanctioned before proceeding on Leave.   • Earned Leave shall not be availed for less than 3 days in one occasion and allowed for the maximum of 3 occasions in a year. In case there is no casual leave or sick leave in his/her credit then the person may be permitted to take earned leave less than 3 days for not more than three occasions in that calendar year.  • Extension of Earned Leave shall be sought in writing, before the expiry of the sanctioned Earned leave.  • Combination: Earned Leave shall be allowed to be combined with sick leave.  • Earned Leave is allowed to be interposed between any weekly off, Holiday & Compensatory Off days but not between casual and or sick leaves.  • Earned Leave can be accumulated up to a maximum of 150 days.  • Earned Leave can be encashed subject to the minimum balance of 15 EL in his/her leave account. The same to be submitted to Administration deptt on Earned Leave Encashment form (Available with Admin Department).  • The EL balance beyond the maximum limit of 150 will be encashed (On Basic Salary) and it will be paid along with the salary payable for the month of January every year to the respective employees. Earned Leave shall also be encashed in the following cases; i. On Death  ii. On Resignation  iii. On Termination   & iv. On Retirement of an employee.  • Encashment: Encashment of Earned leave will be allowed on the basis of Normal rate of Monthly Basic Salary at the time of encashment. The Employee has to bear the tax as per Income Tax Act.  •  Employee who is leaving the Organization can request for adjustment of Balance Earned leave against Un-served Notice period. Management reserves the right to accept or reject his/her request based upon work requirements.     
Page 31 of 97  7.2.5 COMPENSATORY OFF  • Employee/s who is/are required to work on a Weekly Off / Holiday shall be entitled for Compensatory off to the extent of number of hours of work performed by him / her at one time accordingly. The Compensatory off should be availed within two months immediately following that month.  • Compensatory Off can be allowed to be either prefixed or suffixed (not both) to a weekly off or a holiday or Casual Leave and cannot be allowed to be interposed between any of the above. • Employees will be eligible for compensatory off only if they are required to work on a weekly off/ Holiday, no Compensatory off can be claimed on extra work done on normal working days. Employee who is required to work on weekly off/Holiday, shall be entitled for compensatory off to the extend number of hours of work performed by him/her. The compensatory off should be availed within in two months immediately following that month.  7.2.6 MATERNITY LEAVE • Maternity benefit/leaves are covered under ESI Act and Maternity Act. Female employees who are covered in ESI are eligible for availing benefit under ESI Act. Employees who are not covered under ESI Act will be eligible for availing maternity leaves as per Maternity Act.  7.2.7 OVERTIME  • Employees below Jr. Executive / Jr. Engineer level who have to work beyond normal working hours or holidays are entitled to overtime pay.  Overtime is being calculated twice the ordinary rate of Monthly Salary.  The Overtime working is permissible within statutory limit as per the Factories Act (i.e. 50 hours per quarter). Respective dept will enter the name of persons working on overtime in overtime software for making necessary arrangement by Admin dept.   7.2.8 PUNCTUALITY  • Punctuality is a valued norm at MEAI Employees must be in their assigned work at least ten minutes before the beginning of working hours.   7.2.9 WEDDING LEAVE   • Employee who is getting married for the first time will be entitled for Five days paid holiday during the occasion as a special benefit.   7.2.10 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE In the event of demise of a near relative of employee like parents (Blood relation), spouse, child, the company shall grant thirteen days (inclusive of weekly off & holidays) bereavement leave with pay to perform last rites. In case of parents of female employee, they are allowed to opt for either parents or in-laws, and for the same if any of the female wants to use these leaves for its in-laws, she has to give this request in writing to HR department. 
Page 33 of 97   7.3 ATTENDANCE, PERMISSION & LATE COMING  • All persons (Employee, Trainee, Fixed Term trainee & Apprentice) are required to register their attendance through bio-metric machines while coming in and leaving the Factory. • Permission for late coming/early leaving subject to the prior/post approval of the concerned Functional Head. • Punctuality is a valued norm at MEAI. All employees are expected to report on time i.e. 10 minutes before the start working hours. Late comings will be subjected to the deduction of wage for half day (either first half or second half). If casual leave balance is available, the employee can apply for half-a-day leave to avoid deduction of wages beyond the two occasions of late coming.  • Employees shall be permitted two-hour permission maximum normally once in a month subject to 14 times in a year. • Permission shall be availed preferably either in the beginning of the First Half or at the end of the Second Half only.   7.4 ATTENDANCE ALLOWANCE   7.4.1 REGULAR ATTENDANCE ALLOWANCE   To improve punctuality and attendance of employees, attendance allowance benefit is applicable for all employees below Jr Executive/ Jr Engineer Level including Trainees, Fixed Term and Apprentices as per the company policy; details of the same are available in Admn. Deptt. ESI & PF will be deducted from the attendance allowance.  7.4.2 SPECIAL ATTENDANCE ALLOWANCE  All Permanent employees (below Jr. Executive/Engineer) who will fulfil the specific criteria as per Attendance Allowance Policy requirements will be eligible to get special attendance allowance on quarterly basis.    This special allowance will be given at the quarter end along with the salary.      7.5 COMPANY UNIFORM RULES   • The Company provides Uniform to all employees with suitable attire to make them comfortable while working and project an acceptable appearance to customers and visitors.  • It is also way of identifying MEAI employees.  • All employees must wear complete uniform at all times while inside the company premises and outside while performing official business, coming to/going home from work. 
Page 35 of 97   7.6 CHANGE OF ADDRESS AND PERSONAL DETAILS   Employees are advised to inform Admin Department immediately (in writing) of any change in residential address, contact number, marital status or addition in family. In case any discrepancy is found in the information then management may take appropriate action.   7.7 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  We have certified Standing order and any matter raised by employees with the Management concerning their conditions of employment will be handled as per procedure mentioned in Standing Order and company policy. Grievance Procedure is mentioned in clause 29 of approved standing order copy of the same is also available with Admn deptt for ready reference.  Standing order also defines that in case grievance cannot be settled by Grievance committee, the same may be submitted to an Arbitrator. Wherever standing order is not applicable, Grievance Procedure will be followed as per Appointment letter terms, company rules & policies and applicable laws.  7.8 HOLIDAYS - NATIONAL & FESTIVAL  The Company will declare nine or ten days as National/Festival holidays in one year (List of Holidays will be decided after reviewing our main customer list of Holidays). Following list of Holidays may be opted for finalising list of holidays. The Holidays will be finalised keeping in view of Customer requirements and worker representative’s requests. Tentative list of holidays is given below:   1. New Year’s Day 2. Republic Day 3. Holi 4. Labour Day/Janmasthmi 5. Independence Day 6. Raksha Bandhan 7. Gandhi Jayanti 8. Dusshera 9. Karwachauth 10. Deepawali   The Management reserves the right to amend the declared list of holidays based upon company’s requirements as per law/ business requirement.     
Page 37 of 97   7.9   IDENTITY CARDS  The company will issue Identity card to all employees for identification purposes.  The employee must carry Identity card at all times upon entry at the company and while inside company premises. In case loss of identity card, employee should intimate Admn deptt in writing and also give reasons for the same. In case of malfunctioning/damage of card the same need to be submitted to Admn deptt for further necessary action.  7.10 RECRUITMENT & SELECTION  • MEAI as a Company believes in promoting equal employment and opportunity. The company does not discriminate on the basis of person’s color, race, sex and national origin in recruitment and hiring, training, job treatment and promotion.    Recruitment Process flow for Permanent Employees in MEAI:    • Management has approved R&S policy for more clarity. (Written test will only be carried out as per requirements). LOI or Appointment letter is being issued based upon position and association with company. ( e.g Trainees who are absorbed against permanent positions are not being issued LOI)  Recruitment Process flow for Trainees: - They are hired through campus recruitment, through employee’s referrals, placement agency, employees database etc.  Preparation of Manpower PlanInitiation of recruitment Process & Sources of recruitmentScreening of ApplicationsInterviewsSelectionSalary OfferIssue of Letter of IntentVerificationPre Employment Medical health Check upIssue of Appointment Letter(after Joining)
Page 39 of 97  7.11 INDUCTION   FOR BELOW JR. EXECUTIVE /JR. ENGINEER Admn. Deptt co-ordinates an orientation to all its newly hired personnel (permanent, Trainee, Fixed Term, Apprentice & Contractor) employees to familiarize them with the company’s’ management goals and objective, policies and regulations, benefits etc.     FOR JR. EXECUTIVE & ABOVE The objective is to introduce new employees with the organizational environment, explaining them the mission, history, products of the organization, and exposing them to its achievements along with the future challenges, and helping them understand organization’s policies, and its expectations from the new employees. Also, it is to help the new employees get acclimatize to the new environment by providing information pertaining to their job and introducing them to co-workers, and by encouraging them to ask questions. 7.12 PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL Performance Evaluation aims to assess an employee’s performance in order to provide the proper and necessary direction for an improved work output. This also intends to enhance communication between superiors and subordinates to enable them to discuss areas, which need improvement. This will be the base for promotion as well as salary adjustments. Performance evaluation will be twice a year i.e. September & February.  7.13 ANNUAL SALARY REVIEWS AND PROMOTION The promotion or annual salary reviews shall be the sole discretion of management. Eligible employees may be suitably promoted on consideration of merit, qualification, length of service     1•Company Overview2•Safety DOJO3•Behavioural& 5 Senses DOJO4•Product Knowledge5•Production Rules6•Process DOJO7•Quality DOJO8•Maintenance DOJO
Page 41 of 97   and any other relevant factor including confidential report of the Supervisors as per the criteria’s set in Promotion Policy. Salary Review is done annually considering general inflation rate, company’s performance, individual performance & market trend. Based on this review, a salary revision shall be given to the employee effective from the beginning of the financial year as per the Policy.  7.14 RETIREMENT   The retirement age for the employees will be 60 years as per terms of employment.  The retirement benefits as per statute will be as follows:  • PROVIDENT FUND: - It is a social security benefit. All employees (Excluding Expats) including the casual worker are covered.   Employee contribution: 12% of basic Salary  Employer contribution: 12% of basic Salary  This 24% is further bifurcated into 15.67% towards PF contributions and 8.33% towards family pension fund. The ceiling towards Salary for Calculating family pension fund is Rs. 15000/- per month. Family pension maximum contribution is Rs.1250/- and excess amount over and above this will go into PF account.  The Employee can apply for PF transfer in case of change of employment, in case of retirement the amount can be withdrawn after 60 days of cession of employment; this condition is not applicable in case of death of employee.  • GRATUITY:  - Employee will be eligible for Gratuity on completion of five years of continuous service except in case of death or disability.   Wages for calculation - @ 15 days wages for every completed year of service. Wages would mean basic salary last drawn by the employee.                                                                                                                              Maximum limit – As per Statutory Norms.  Gratuity gets forfeited on termination of employee for moral turpitude or disorderly behavior wholly or partially for willfully causing loss, destruction of property etc.  Employee can take the gratuity at the time of separation or retirement if he/she has completed five years of continuous service.    • LEAVE ENCASHMENT: The accumulated earned leave during the period of service can be encashed at the time of separation or retirement or in case of death. The Employee has to bear the tax as per Income Tax Act.  
Page 43 of 97  7.15 TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT A well-trained work force is essential for a company to be successful. To keep employees abreast with technology and management strategies and keeping in view of business needs, trainings are planned. It also aims to enhance their technical and professional knowledge and skills. Training may be in-house or external. Each Function head is responsible to identify Training needs for the purpose of training calendar which are finally approved by top management & and in case of training other than training calendar, it can be provided after management approval.  DOJO Training Cell: DOJO is a management method necessary in the automotive industry, because it allows the managing and continuous improvement of a grand diversity of problems by training to achieve the best performances in the working station.  To achieve our Training plan and creating a trained workforce we have developed our DOJO Center which will ensure to train new manpower for shop floor operations by creating pre deployment training facility and facilitating other specific need based training, group trainings as per the Training Calendar. Pre-Deployment Training Area is focussed on giving a practical feel of critical tools and operations for line production. It consist of   - Dummys of Critical work station - Process flow of production line  - Step/Operation wise assembly process with child parts. - Awareness and Usage training of tools like Torque Wrench, Nut Runners etc. - 5-S, Company rules & policies - Employment standing orders, Code of conduct etc - OJT  7.16 TERMINATION/SEPARATION   Employer may initiate action to end employer-employee relationship. The following may be the reasons for a termination of employment.  a) Unsatisfactory services during probationary period. b) Serious misconduct or willful disobedience of lawful orders. c) Gross or habitual neglect of duties. d) Fraud or willful breach of trust. e) Commission of crime against the employer or immediate family or engaging in prohibited activities. Separation occurs when an employee retires or resigns or is terminated. A resigning employee is required to serve a notice as per the terms mentioned in Appointment letter to enable smooth transition of responsibility. Employee under separation will complete his/her pending assignments diligently and sincerely and will hand over the charge completely. In the event of failure on the part of the employee to hand over the charge and possession of managements properties etc, the management shall be at liberty to forfeit the salary, security deposit and other dues if any, of such employee payable by the company, without any prejudice to its rights to action which the management may have in law against such employee.   
Page 45 of 97  Separation for Medical reasons: if employee is suffering from an illness/disease which can be threat to the life of co-employees or making him unfit for the employment purposes in such cases his/her services can be terminated as per the terms of appointment letter/legal norms.  7.17 TRANSFER  Management reserves the right to transfer an employee to any other section, department or to any sister concern either existing or established in future. However, no transfer shall result in any reduction of benefits nor shall it affect an employee’s employment status. If an employee is transferred to other factory/office/establishment of this company, Rules & Regulations of that factory/office/establishment shall be applicable to such employee  7.18 TRAVEL SCHEME  All employees required to travel on work will be governed by Travel Rules of the Company, as existing at the time of travel. The employees are required to make use of approved formats which are available at MEAI Intranet.  7.19 WORK SCHEDULE:  The following is about the Attendance & Leave rules pertaining to our Company.  Weekdays & Off days   Factory normal working days -   Monday to Saturday (6 days) /Week Except 2nd & 4th Saturday   Weekly Holiday -Sunday                Working Hours General Shift (G) 0800 hrs to 1630 hrs First Tea Break: 1000 hrs to 1010 hrs Second Tea Break: 1500 hrs to 1510 hrs Lunch Break: 1230 hrs to 1300 Hrs.   The above timings may be changed depending upon the Work requirement. In such cases the Employees will be intimated in advance. No women is allowed to work in factory after 7 PM or before 6AM.      
Page 47 of 97  First Shift (A):   0600 hrs to 1430 hrs First Tea Break: 0800 hrs to 0810 hrs Second Tea Break: 1300 hrs to 1310 hrs Lunch Break: 1130 hrs to 1200 hrs   Second Shift (B):  1430 hrs to 2300 hrs First Tea Break: 1630 hrs to 1640 hrs Second Tea Break: 2130 hrs to 2140 hrs Dinner Break: 2000 hrs to 2030 hrs  Third Shift (C):  2300 hrs to 0600 hrs First Tea Break 0100 hrs to 0130 hrs Second Tea Break 0400 hrs to 0410 hrs  Employees (Supervisor & below level) will be given Shift Allowance coming in A, B & C shift as per General Information policy.   7.20 OUT DOOR DUTY  All employees below Manager Level are required to get OD slip signed by their HOD while going for outdoor tasks. In case of non-availability of HOD, OD slips can be submitted with a comment about non availability and have to be re-submitted duly approved by HOD by concerned employee when the HOD is available.   In case an employee is on OD for whole day and started the day without reporting to the office, in such circumstances, employees are required to submit their OD slips to the HR & Admn. Department in advance or immediately on the day he is reporting to the office.  In case an employee is proceeding on OD during working hours, the OD slip is required to be submitted at Security Gate.  7.21 GENERAL RULES - LEAVES  • Encashment of EL/SL is allowed on the basis of normal rate of monthly Basic salary only exclusive of perquisite/benefits whatsoever provided. In case of resignation shortfall notice period, may be set off against the individual’s leave account after reviewing the individual case by the management.   
Page 49 of 97   • No leaves shall be claimed as a matter of right. Sanction of leave is always subject to the exigencies of work and at management’s sole discretion.  • All employees are requested to ensure that the leave application, wherever possible are given prior to availing of the leave. However, in special cases, such as sickness or other emergency, intimation to be sent immediately and leave application may be given on the date of joining.  • The Management reserves the rights to modify, amend and change these rules based on company’s aim to achieve continuous improvements.   8. OTHER IMPORTANT THINGS TO REMEMBER   8.1 NOTICE BOARDS   Notice Boards are one of the essential tools used by the Company in communicating with its employees. Employees should read Circulars, Notices or memos posted on the notice board and keep themselves informed of any development. The notice boards are used for official company use only and should not be defaced or tempered with.   8.2 COMPANY TELEPHONE/FAX/E-MAILS   ▪ Company telephone/fax/E-mails are reserved for business purposes. The use of these lines for personal purpose shall be limited for emergencies. (Illness, accident or other similar purpose). Persons making ISD calls on personal basis are required to obtain Functional Head’s concurrence and make payment to company on receipt of the telephone bill towards cost of such personal calls.  ▪ The use of long-distance calls (ISD) should be sent through Reception Board. All users are requested to make frequent use of E-mail as mode of communication as it is cost effective.  ▪ E-mails should be used for business purposes and any official data/information is not to be sent outside without permission.      
Page 51 of 97     8.3 USAGE OF MOBILE PHONE   No person (insider or outsider) should use mobile phone in shop floor as it can affect quality/work/Safety. Employees who are carrying their personal mobile phone should ensure that it is being used only during emergency. They can also use company landline as per the issued guidelines However employees can use their mobile phones during tea breaks and lunch breaks but should see that they are not disturbing others.  Executive & above level employees are allowed to use mobile phones for Business discussion during office hours keeping in line with his/her job role/work requirement.    8.4 MATERIAL MOVEMENT  Any movement of materials from the factory should be through proper documents by authorised officials.  8.5 SMOKING RULES   The Employees who have the habit of smoking are advised to smoke only in smoking area and smoking elsewhere is prohibited.   8.6 SECURITY SYSTEMS & PROCEDURES  All Employees are advised to adhere to the following systems & Procedures with regard to the Security Systems of our Company.  We follow entry card system to strengthen our security system: -  GREED VISITOR CARD: Office Area  ORGANGE VISITOR CARD: Work Permit YELLOW VISITOR CARD: Shop Floor Outside BLUE VISITOR CARD:  Shop Floor Inside  8.6.1 EMPLOYEE ENTRY / EXIT  ▪ Attendance Recording: Every Employee or other category, while entering into the Factory, is liable to register their Bio-metric attendance as per the system & procedure. Attendance will be marked as per actual attendance record and leave/OD/short leave etc. will be marked as per company rules & policies.   
Page 53 of 97  8.6.2 VISITORS  ▪ Any Visitor on their arrival shall report to Security as per Visitor Rules Policy. ▪ The Security, after getting permission with concerned official, will permit the Visitor inside the premises. ▪ Frisking/Special Search : Security staff can carry out a specific search on any employee for any valid reasons, at the occasions wherever it is required subject to the instructions from the Managing Director through Admn deptt, the employees have to obey and follow such instructions of Security.  ▪ Liability on Personal Belongings: Employees are advised not to keep any of their personal belongings - valuables, ornaments, cash etc., inside the premises of the Company.  Company will not be liable in case of missing any such personal articles.  However, in such occasions, employees are advised to intimate on missing such articles immediately to Admn Department for further possible help and action.  ▪ Intimation of Unusual Working: The Security shall be informed in advanced in writing through Administration Department in case of any Employee or any contractor is required to work after Office Hours / Weekly Off / Holiday. The concerned Functional Head, who plans for such work, shall be responsible for the advance intimation of the same to Security through Administration as above.  8.6.3 RULES FOR WORK PERMIT   The Objective is to ensure overall safety of Man, Machine, Material and to stipulate a procedure and a set of Rules & responsibilities while carrying out any activity of repair, maintenance and any other similar activity within the premises by external party. 8.7   SOLICITATIONS/DISTRIBUTION OF LITERATURE   In order to maintain efficient operation and safety certain restrictions must be observed on solicitation and distribution. Solicitation and/or distribution of non-work related literature by anyone while inside the company premises shall be strictly prohibited.   8.8 SELLING OF GOODS AND SERVICES   The company strictly prohibits any form of selling goods and/or services any time within company premises.      
Page 55 of 97  • Visitor’s vehicles will be parked outside the premises except for VIP/ Customers as per Parking Policy.  • Any personal belongings carried by visitors should be kept in cloak room near Security Main Gate. However, visitors are requested not to keep cash/valuables inside the cloak room.  9. FACILITIES, BENEFITS AND WELFARE   9.1 LOAN SCHEME   Personal Loan Policy for below Supervisor level Max Loan one time – Rs.2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lacs only) Max Loan Budget – Rs.95,00,000/- (Rupees Ninety Five lacs only) (as per approved budget & as per settlement) Loan recovery will be made as per policy.  Personal Loan Policy for Supervisor & above level Loan Limit – 4 months CTC* Loan Budget – 4 months CTC Loan recovery will be made as per policy. Management reserves the right to increase/decrease the loan amount keeping in view of requirements. * CTC defined in Policy  9.2 MEDICLAIM INSURANCE   • It facilitates medical insurance coverage to all permanent employees and their Family members (wife & children) as per the Mediclaim Policy.   • Employees also have an option to opt for Parents coverage under ‘Parents Mediclaim Policy’ as per Parents Mediclaim Policy.   9.3 GROUP PERSONAL ACCIDENT INSURANCE   • It provides monetary relief to an employee or immediate members of his/her family in the event of death or injury sustained by employee out of accident caused by violent, visible and external means.    
Page 57 of 97  9.4 TERM INSURANCE POLICY  Company has made a provision for term insurance policy for all permanent employees to provide financial support to family in serious medical condition where the life is at stake or in case of death of employee to secure the family needs or uncertainty. The coverage and contributions will be as per company rules and policies.  9.5 SUPERANNUATION POLICY The purpose of this policy is to provide financial support to employees for their long association and to avoid sudden big payments/expenses at the time of retirement.  The benefits of superannuation policy will be applicable to all permanent employees as per policy.   9.6 ANNUAL HEALTH CHECK - UP  The company conducts Annual Health Check Program for permanent employees as a part of welfare policy. The company reimburse Rs. 5,000/- for health checkup of family members (of Permanent Employees) once in three years, please refer Medical Health Check Policy for details.  9.7 ANNUAL PICNIC/ GET - TOGETHER  Company may organise one Day Outing or 2-3 days Annual Picnic (within 350 Km) once a year wherein employees with their spouse & children gathers for recreation, building healthy relations and cohesiveness.  9.8 SPORTS AND RECREATION FACILITIES  Recreation equipment’s are provided with the objective to strengthen team spirit, good interpersonal relationship and for physical fitness of our employees.  Employees can play during lunch break, after normal working hours till vehicle leaves or on holidays as per the recreation equipment operating rules.   Company will encourage & support for Intra/Inter sports competition.   9.9 TRANSPORTATION SERVICES   Company is providing transportation free of cost on pre-fixed routes in all shifts keeping in view of optimum utilization and overall suitability. MEAI has a Transport committee, which will do evaluation and assessment of routes and will ensure smooth and harmonious implementation of transport facility and optimum benefit utilization.   The details of Rules are available in Transport Policy. 
Page 59 of 97   9.10 CANTEEN FACILITY/SUBSIDIZED FOOD   All employees are provided food in our In-house canteen at subsidized rates (existing charges) of Rs.10/- per day (below Jr. Executive / Jr. Engineer level) & Rs.20/- per day (Jr. Executive/ Jr. Engineer & above level employees).  9.11 INTEREST CONCESSION ON HOUSING LOAN Concession on interest shall be given to below Jr. Supervisor level employees as per the limits prescribed in policy. Details of the same are available on MEAI Intranet.  9.12 LEAVE TRAVEL ASSISTANCE (LTA)   To facilitate employees in meeting the travel expenses incurred by them on travel to any place in India for rest and recuperation while on leave.  All confirmed employees shall be eligible for benefits as per Leave travel Policy subject to completion of one year from the date of joining. Employee can refer the LTA Policy for eligibility & other further details.  9.13 MARRIAGE GIFT  To serve as Employee’s welfare scheme and to provide MEAI’s blessings and best wishes on this auspicious day –             Permanent         Trainee         Employee  On the occasion of Self Marriage:            Rs. 11,000/- Rs. 2,100/- On the occasion of daughter &  Rs. 31,000/-   - Real sister Marriage:     (In a rare event wherein, both are MEAI permanent employee; then the amount would be Rs. 22,000/-)      9.14 DIWALI  Company provides sweets to all personnel including fixed employment and contractors on the occasion of Diwali. Company provides gift and bonus/ex-gratia to employees on the occasion of Diwali. Management reserves the right to amend or withdraw this benefit.         
Page 61 of 97  9.15 BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION  Celebrations give employees recognition for accomplishments and milestones in both business and their personal lives and objective of this is to send wishes for achieving another milestone in their personal life. A small gathering for birthday celebration is carried out once a month with Top Management and respective SH/FH along with members whose birthday fall during the month. MD San conveys birthday wishes along with a small message which can be on compliance, safety, etc.  9.16 DONATION BOX  MEAI has kept a donation box at Security Office for donation to Gaushala. Donation is on voluntary basis. The cash in donation box is managed /controlled by Gaushala representative through Union representatives and company has no role in this regard.  9.17 TUITION FEES  All Permanent employees below Jr. Supervisor level, are eligible for reimbursement of Rs. 8,000/- as tuition fees per year for self, wife, kids’ brother/sister on submission of proof.  10.  WORK IMPROVEMENT/MOTIVATIONAL PRACTICES  10.1 EMPLOYEE SUGGESTION SCHEME   The Company has a Suggestion award system to encourage employees to come up with good ideas for cost control, quality improvement, better customer services etc. Employees are suitably awarded as per company policy.  10.2 EMPLOYEE COUNCIL COMMITTEE /SAFETY COMMITTEE/ TRANSPORT COMMITEE  To take steps for securing and preserving amity and good relations between the employer and workmen and, to the end, to comment upon the matters of their common interest or concern and endeavour to resolve any material difference of opinion in respect of such matters, the Employee Council have been formed.  The purpose of a safety committee is to bring workers and management together in a non-adversarial, cooperative effort to promote safety and health in each workplace.  The purpose of transport committee is to bring workers and management together to hassle free transport activities in MEAI.  The members of the Employee council and Safety committee meet once in a month and rotated in every six months for increasing employee’s participation.  
Page 63 of 97  10.3 BEST SUGGESTION AWARD  The operators who give quantitative and qualitative suggestions are given best suggestion awards. Appreciation award is also given for encouragement.  10.4 OPEN DOOR POLICY & TOWN HALL MEETINGS MEAI believes in Open Door Policy and all employees can meet MD San on request for open discussion. MEAI believes in open communication culture and want to make sure that employees are aware about the company vision and its expectations. Thus, Top Management normally conducts half yearly meetings to address below Jr. Supervisor level employees which are named as Town Hall Meetings. During this meeting, the Top Management (MD san or COO san) brief them about their improvements/ accomplishments during that period along with business challenges, quality concerns, market conditions and future business scenario/plans.  10.5 BEST OPERATOR OF THE YEAR AWARD Outstanding operator achieving all set criteria’s is being recognized for their excellent work/contributions during year. He/She is being given this award in the year-end (generally in December).  10.6 LONG ASSOCIATION AWARD POLICY  The employees are biggest assets of any Organization and employees needs to be suitably rewarded for their loyalty in terms of long working association with the organization. The eligibility/entitlement stands on completion of 5 yrs, 10 yrs, 15 yrs,20 yrs & 25 years as per policy.  10.7 IMMEDIATE MD SAN AWARD   A special MD San award is given to appreciate employee’s/business associates for their extra-ordinary efforts who have contributed over & above their job responsibility and contributed to either to the organization or society at a large by: a) Preventing outflow defective products to customer. b) Great social contribution, rescue a life, firefighting etc.   10.8 SGA SCHEME (SMALL GROUP ACTIVITIES)  To encourage employees doing similar work who voluntarily meet together on a regular basis to identify improvements in their respective work areas using proven techniques for analyzing and solving work related problems coming in the way of achieving and sustaining excellence leading to mutual gain  of employees as well as organization. It is a way of capturing the creative and innovation power that lies within the work force.  10.9 MEAI NEWSLETTER/ COMMUNIQUE  MEAI Communiqué is published on Quarterly/half yearly basis. It covers news on Safety, Quality, Product information, significant events, employee’s contribution, happy & sad moments of employees. This magazine also to bring for the creative abilities of employees. The person has to contact HR department for making contribution in the magazines. 
Page 65 of 97  10.10 POWER HARASSMENT GUIDELINES  Generally, at workplace, two types of harassment exist i.e. Power Harassment and Sexual harassment. In MEAI, we respect rights of each employee and we do not engage in any harassment, libel or defamation, humiliating and hostile conduct of any other actions that deny human rights. Despite this, we have implemented power harassment guidelines in MEAI which provides the actions to be taken and process to deal with such type of complaints, if any. Please refer the policy for more details.  11. OTHER POLICIES AND SYSTEMS  11.1 HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (ISO 14001:2015 & ISO 45001:2018)  MEAI OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT POLICY We, at MEAI, strive to improve the environment and to make it more sustainable through continual improvement. We are committed to provide the good standards of safety and health for our employees and to protect environment. We will achieve this by following: • Safe Working Environment - Creating a safe working environment by providing safe workplace, safe machine & equipment, and safe system of work.  • Compliance, Corporate & other requirements- Complying and being committed to fulfil all applicable statutory laws, customer & other requirements. Also, aligning our Health, Safety & Environmental targets with our Corporate Environmental Sustainability Vision 2050. • Structured Implementation - Implementing and providing framework for a structured health, safety & environmental management system by setting environmental objectives and doing continual improvement in it. • Employee Participation, Communication, Training & Awareness -By Involving workers for consultation and participation to enhance HSEMS performance Impart Environmental Communication to all interested parties, Training and awareness to all personnel under MEAI control. • Preventing Pollution, minimizing risk, prevention of Injury and ill health- Protecting environment and preventing pollution as well as establishing an accident-free workplace by prevention of injury and ill health to eliminate/ minimize/ control risks arising from occupational health and safety hazards. • Resource conservation & Practising 3R- Continually striving to prevent or eliminate hazards and reduce waste & pollution by improving operations & practising 3R (i.e. Reduce, Reuse & Recycle) to ensure sustainable use of natural resources.  EMERGENCY SITE PLAN  Any emergency happening at the site is governed by Site Emergency Plan. It describes the immediate action to be taken in case of any emergency. Positive action taken by personnel during the emergency will minimise the no. of injuries and extent of damage to property and business.   
Page 67 of 97  11.2 QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (IATF16949:2016)   MEAI QUALITY POLICY We at MEAI are committed to achieve total customer satisfaction through our corporate statement “Changes for the better”. We will pursue the following Guidelines to achieve Excellence in all aspects of our business.  • Quality should always come before Delivery & Cost. • Satisfaction of Society and Customers by providing Products and services of the best Quality with aim of achieving “Total customer satisfaction”. • Continually improving the Quality Management System emphasizing Defect Prevention, Reduction of Variation and Waste in the supply chain. • Focus on Teamwork and Employee involvement through Skill up gradation and Training. • Act with Integrity, high Ethical standards &comply with all laws and Social Norms. EMPLOYEE MOTIVATION / EMPOWERMENT To motivate employees to achieve quality objectives, to make continual improvement & to create an environment to promote innovation. The process applies to all employees of MEAI. The Motivation and empowerment surveys are carried once a year as per the process. Management reviews Motivation feedback results and also makes necessary action plans for overall improvements wherever required. 5S HEALTH & SAFETY   We at MEAI are committed to create a Clean, Healthy and Safe environment. Management have appointed a 5S Health & Safety committee as a step in ensuring the above role for keeping a safe & clean environment.  The role & scope of 5S Health & Safety committee is as follows: Scope of 5S Health & Safety Committee 1. To create awareness of 5S among employees. 2. Maintain safe working conditions 3. Install and maintain all necessary safety devices on machines and equipment’s. 4. Provide safety instructions and rules of accident prevention. ▪ To ensure safer handling of equipment’s and machines (i.e. forklifts etc.) ▪ Handling of electrical equipment’s and appliances. ▪ Implementation of 5S throughout the company.  ▪ Any other safety & hygiene issue. All employees are requested to stick to safety guidelines and in case they observe any safety threat, the same is to be informed to 5S Health & Safety Committee without delay. Members of the safety committee are also rotated in every six months for increasing more participation.  12.  CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY  12.1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MEAI has keen interest towards working for some social development activity. It has chosen Education as a core area for supporting orphans/needy section of the society through various Schools/organizations/NGO, which is working towards the good cause of society.  
Page 69 of 97  13. GRAPHICS STANDARD POLICY  To establish standards for visual communication elements necessary for corporate activities in market and creating a unified look and improving corporate identity through the correct use of these standards. Details of the same are available with company rules and policies.  14. PREVENTION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT   Our Company is committed to provide a work environment that ensures every woman employee is treated with dignity and respect and afforded equitable treatment. The company has constituted a Sexual Harassment Cell for redressal of sexual harassment complaint (made by the victim) and for ensuring time bound treatment of such complaints. The POSH committee meets once in 3 months, wherein all female members are invited to share their concerns if any. They are also briefed about their right and duties as female employee.  15. ROLE OF TRADE UNION   We have Trade Union in our organisation since April 2013. The motives of trade Union is:- ▪ To represent workers interest ▪ To protect & promote the interest of workers ▪ Developing labour laws & regulation for effective worker protection. ▪ To help in maintenance of discipline ▪ Management has positive approach towards Union and believes in win-win approach. Management is also interested in strengthening leadership skills among Union representatives as they have to guide others.  16. INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM These policies and guidelines apply to all resources at Mitsubishi Electric Automotive India Pvt. Ltd., hereafter referred to as MEAI. These resources consist of business information in from of non-electronic, computer system, computer peripherals and software applications such as electronic mail, access the internet, word processing and data storage. These resources are the property of MEAI, access to these resources is provided for business purpose use and is subject to MEAI policies and regulations. In order for these resources to operate at a reasonable and dependable level of service, it is essential that every user exercise responsible and ethical behaviour when using them.  Detail of the same is available with company rules and policies.   17. MEAI COMPLIANCE CHART  MEAI has a legal team which comprises of Company Secretary, Senior member from F&A Dept, Assistant CCO’s, Corporate Compliance Officer & Chief Operating Officer and this team ensures that highest standard of compliance is maintained throughout the organization.     
Page 71 of 97 
Page 73 of 97  Legal & Compliance leaders provides the compliance activities status against plan vs actual through MIS to CCO on quarterly basis. The Legal team meets on quarterly basis and reviews the overall compliance activities performed by each dept and other compliance activities done in that quarter.  18. COMPANY ETHICS POLICY  Our Company Ethics Policy reflects the commitment to uphold our reputation for honesty and ethical conduct toward our customers, our partners, our employees and our competitors. MEAI Ethics Policy is in line with MELCO Group code of conduct and provide a framework for ensuring ethical conduct. The policy also outlines the responsibility of employees and officers in Management and supervision, including consequences of violation. Detail of the same is available with company rules and policies  19. WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY ▪ To establish standards in a fair & transparent manner by adopting higher standards of professionalism, honesty, integrity and ethical behavior. To provide a framework to promote reasonable & secure whistle blowing. ▪ All employees or other business associates/stakeholder who apprises management of any incident/act or activity which can be detrimental to company directly or indirectly, now or later can refer the same through complaint box which will be consider a pro-management step. Management will not only keep secrecy of the person but also reward him/her accordingly. Contact Details for Whistle Blower: Landline: +91-124-2290158, EMAIL: MEAIWhistle.Blower@meai-india.com  20. ANTI- BRIBERY POLICY  The purpose of this policy is to provide the compliance requirements for prevention of bribery and avoiding any suspicion of bribery in our corporate activities. Detail of the same is available with company rules and policies  21. SOCIAL RISK POLICY   MEAI has a policy to establish a timely and appropriate response program for social risks which may adversely affect company directly or indirectly the financials, goodwill, business, operations and human being. Details of the same are available with company rules and policies.   
Page 75 of 97   22. ANTI-TRUST/ANTI-MONOPOLY GUIDELINE To establish preventive measures against formation of price cartels with other companies in the automotive industry, and to prevent violations of anti-trust and anti-monopoly laws which is primarily regularized through Competition Act,2002 of India and all other laws and regulations concerning fair trade that are applicable in the countries and regions in which conduct business. No actions that raise suspicions of having illegal acts/ deeds (conversation and/or communication) with anyone from the third party shall be taken by any of MEAI members throughout our business activities. Detail of the same is available with company rules and policies. 23. LITIGATION POLICY The objective of the policy is to restrict the unnecessary litigation as well as to ensure appropriate and effective prosecution and presentation before the courts on behalf of the organization. Detail of the same is available with company rules and policies. 24. HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY The Purpose of this policy is to show our commitment to uphold are reputation for honesty and ethical conduct by respecting Human Rights of our all stakeholders which includes employees, customers, shareholders and suppliers/vendors. In doing so we follow all National, International Laws and Mitsubishi Electric group Human Rights guidelines.  Detail of the same is available with company rules and policies. 25. 33 SAFETY RULES RULE NUMBER 1 (PROHIBITION MATTER)  Never perform a regular work with a safety cover removed.  RULE NUMBER 2 (PROHIBITION MATTER)  Never invalidate interlock without the permission of Senior/Supervisor.  RULE NUMBER 3 (PROHIBITION MATTER)  Never extend a hand to the operating part to prevent the hand or fingers being caught and nipped.  RULE NUMBER 4 (PROHIBITION MATTER) Never deal (regular production/maintenance/repair) with the trouble machinery in automatic operating conditions. RULE NUMBER 5 (PROHIBITION MATTER) Never repair the machinery without stopping the power switch and the air source as applicable. RULE NUMBER 6 (PROHIBITION MATTER) Never perform a live-line work. 
Page 77 of 97  RULE NUMBER 7 (PROHIBITION MATTER) Never pass under the heavy goods/cargo and never allow anyone to be under the hoisted cargo/goods/filled pallets while loading/unloading /moulds. RULE NUMBER 8 (PROHIBITION MATTER) Never perform an operation check without going out of the equipment and closing the safety cover. RULE NUMBER 9 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) When we observe any kind of abnormality in machinery,  1st: Stop the machinery immediately,  2nd: Call your immediate supervisor/Senior  3rd: Don’t start the machine, wait until your supervisor come. RULE NUMBER 10 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) While repairing machine we must put a label of ‘Under Repair’ or ‘Under adjustment’ on a master switch. RULE NUMBER 11 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) While working on height, we must have scaffolding and safety belt. RULE NUMBER 12 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) While working in team we must decide a leader, give a signal and check. RULE NUMBER 13 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) Do not carry heavy goods more than 50 kg (for Male) and 30 Kg (For Female) by yourself. RULE NUMBER 14 (OBSEVANCE MATTER) In workplaces, follow 5S (5S) 3 Tei 5S “Arrangement”, “Order”, “Cleaning:, “Cleanliness”, “Discipline”) 3-Tei Set on “Normal position”.“Fixed product”, “Fixed quantity” RULE NUMBER 15 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) We must wear specified working clothes and use protection cloths (Apron, if applicable) while working on machinery. RULE NUMBER 16 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) Worker must wear a working hat/Cap and a helmet of company on the shop floor and working field of MEAI.      
Page 79 of 97  RULE NUMBER 17 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) Do not put your hand in pocket while walking. RULE NUMBER 18 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) Always open or close the door slowly and be attentive to the other side of the door. RULE NUMBER 19 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) Do not put anything before electric switch, fire extinguisher, fire hydrant, an approach entrance of the fire brigade. RULE NUMBER 20 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) Do not eat or drink in a workshop/shopfloor. RULE NUMBER 21 (PROMISE MATTER) When seeing / observing any dangerous action by somebody, we should warn each other of danger. RULE NUMBER 22 (PROMISE MATTER) When recognize a danger in a place or an action, we should notify other people of it and propose an improvement immediately. RULE NUMBER 23 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) Do not run in passage and at stairs be careful and watch your step. RULE NUMBER 24 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) Check right side and left side at the time of crossing of the road. RULE NUMBER 25 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) Do not use a mobile-phone during walking and vehicle driving. RULE NUMBER 26 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) In case we drive a car and forklift, do not exceed the speed limit of 10km/h in the yard and 5km/h in the working field and drive with giving preference to the pedestrian.       
Page 81 of 97  RULE NUMBER 27 (PROMISE MATTER) When commuting, we should perform “driving wherein possibility is considered” with allowance. We should predict the hazard for a safe driving. RULE NUMBER 28 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) We must reduce the speed and stop at the crossing, then confirm the safety of traffic. RULE NUMBER 29 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) We must walk the appropriate side orderly so that general traffic do not disturb. RULE NUMBER 30 (OBSERVANCE MATTER) Never smoke at a place other than the designated place. RULE NUMBER 31 (PROMISE MATTER) When commuting, we should not wear clothes which expose the skin excessively, high-heeled shoes, sandals, and slippers. RULE NUMBER 32 (PROMISE MATTER) Do not use mobile phones on Shop Floor/warehouse/while driving. RULE NUMBER 33 (PROMISE MATTER) Careful use of Chemicals Handling. 26. CODES OF DISCIPLINE & ADMINISTRATION OF DISCIPLINARY ACTION  26.1 CODE OF DISCIPLINE  All employees are expected to follow the code of employee behaviour as per the terms & conditions mentioned in your Appointment letter/Company rule or policies or as per the terms of approved standing orders.  1. Workers representatives will ensure that workers will not change shift without permission. In case he wants to change the shift due to any reason than it can be done only with the prior permission of the supervisor and respective employee with whom shift will be changed.  2. Absence from workstation/ low production/ Not Working workers’ pay would be payable according to the definition of wages "No work No wages/salary" theory will be applied (according to the definition of wages).   
Page 83 of 97  3. Workers representatives will ensure Not to Stop Production or create loss of production under any circumstance.  4. Workers representatives will ensure that no worker will use mobile phone while working on lines which effects the work.  5. Workers representative will ensure that no worker will leave its workplace. Since the workers Representative recognizes the fact that discipline in productivity is must, representatives will ensure that: -  • No worker will perform an act during work or after work which will hamper the image of the organisation. If any worker is found indulged in such activity than disciplinary action will be taken against him/her according to the certified standing order of the company.  • Contractual worker or other workers, who does not come under the purview of Union, Union members will not interfere in any actions taken against them for indiscipline/poor performance/misbehaviour.  • The worker on important station in case reliever is not available, will ensure the continuity of work even after end of shift, and will not leave the station without necessary arrangements as per the advice of his supervisor. If in any circumstances the reliever does not come than in that situation line in charge has the right to engage any worker on overtime as per skill requirements.   Management can take appropriate disciplinary action against any worker found involved in any act of indiscipline and it is decided that there shall be action as per Certified Standing Orders on such workers. Union Representative/ Workers will not impose any pressure like Work Stoppage/ Work Slowdown/ Group indiscipline on management while doing so.  6. To maintain a conducive environment in company, Union representative shall ensure that they should not get involved in such activities which is against Standing Order, Appointment Letter & Settlement guidelines or which ultimately brings loss to company. Management never preforms any enmity against any worker, but in case any union representative is found involved in such unwanted activities which are against rules then company will take action on him as per appropriate Regulations. 7. Workers and union are agreed for not carrying any Trade Union Activities inside company premises during working hours. Union representatives can meet company representatives only after taking prior permission. Workers will follow the implemented OR to be implemented standing order of company.   
Page 85 of 97   MISCONDUCT Misconduct shall mean an act of omission or commission duty or warranty, express or implied, custom or usage, whether specified herein or otherwise, either singly or in collaboration with others. Any act or omission, which in any manner done is detrimental to interest of the business or discipline or reputation or prestige of the management and company whether or not, expressly regarded as such, shall amount to misconduct whether committed within or outside the premises of the company. The company has formulated the following code of discipline for employee’s guidance and compliance. The list is illustrative but not exhaustive:  Various misconducts are listed below:  MINOR MISCONDUCT (FOR FIRST VIOLATION) 1. Absence without leave up to 3 days in a month or absence from the workman's appointed place of work. 2. Failure to notify the Company / Management of any change of address. 3. Chewing betel while on duty and within the boundary walls. 4. Misuse of the furniture or property of the company. 5. Defacing the walls/building of the work premises. 6. Use of equipment / property in ways not permissible. 7. Negligence in performance of duties. 8. Entering or leaving the premises by the gates not specified for such purposes  MAJOR MISCONDUCT 1. Impertinence, insubordination, dereliction of duty, disobedience or refusal to work or obey, whether alone or in combination with others, of any lawful and reasonable order of superior, including an order which may be issued under these Standing Orders. If any workman doubts the veracity, legality or reasonableness of an order of superior, he can raise his objections only after complying with the order and shall not refuse to obey the same.  2. Participating in an illegal or unjustified strike or activities detrimental to the interests or reputation of the Management/ Company.  3. Inciting other workmen to go on or participate in an illegal or unjustified strike or to act in furtherance thereof. 4. Malingering, go-slow or slow-down, dharna, picketing, gherao, sabotage or any abetment or instigation thereof, whether as a concerted action by the workmen or by an individual workman.  5. Indulging in any tactics or strategy having the result of a stay-in-strike, tool down strike or the like or doing such things as to cause stoppage of work of any section or department.  6. Theft, embezzlement, fraud, misappropriation or dishonesty in connection with the business or property of the Company; or of any workman within the premises of the establishment / works.  7. Habitual absence or habitually overstaying the sanctioned leave, habitual absence from the workman's appointed place of work without permission or sufficient cause. 
Page 87 of 97  8. Taking or giving bribes or any illegal gratification or tips. 9. Breach of any law, rules, regulations and orders applicable to the Company / Management. 10. Engaging in any occupation, profession, trade, business (including money-lending or the like) while in employment. 11. Assault, fighting, riotous or disorderly or indecent behaviour or any act subversive of discipline. 12. Abusing, threatening/ assaulting any co-worker or superior of the Company outside the work premises in connection with official work, production activity or any other related business. 13. Writing a letter to any superior containing offensive remarks against him. 14. Delivering derogatory speeches, inciting workmen to misbehave or indulging in any act of intimidation or coercion against any co-worker. 15. Use of offensive vile or obscene language with hidden imputation against the Management or any of its officers. 16. False complaint before any authority against the Management or any superior officer. 17. Restraining and/or confining any officer with a view to making him concede to his/their demands. 18. Preventing any officer or workman from discharging his duties towards the Company. 19. Sleeping during duty hours. 20. Gambling/ playing cards or similar games in the premises or during duty hours. 21. Carrying and/or being under the influence of or using drugs without prescription, or intoxicants or alcoholic beverages at any time during duty hours. 22. Refusal to submit for medical examination as and when required by the concerned authority. 23. Imputing dishonesty or misuse of funds against the superiors without any sufficient cause. 24. Giving false evidence against the Management, which the workman knows to be untrue. 25. Carrying out trade union activities during duty hours.  26. Violating local or State health codes, laws or byelaws of any competent authority 27. Refusal to give any assurance or undertaking in writing for observing proper discipline and decorum while on duty and/or for not resorting to go-slow/slow down, or the like. 28. Refusal to work overtime in accordance with Factories Act, 1948. 29. Refusal by a workman to sign his production or any other job-related record.  30. Violation of any Act/Statute applicable to the Company/ Establishment.  31. Endangering the safety of self or others or endangering the Company's property.  32. Use of disrespectful language towards officers/superiors in correspondence or otherwise or to show rudeness in behaviour.          
Page 89 of 97  33. Furnishing false or incomplete information or suppressing any information regarding name, age, father's name, qualifications, ability, previous service, conviction in a Court of Law, dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement by a previous employer or any other matter germane to the employment either at the time of employment or at any time during the course of employment.  34. Acting in any manner prejudicial to the interests of the Company/Management. 35. Collection, without the written permission of the Manager, of any money within the premises of the works/Establishment. 36. Commission of any act, which amounts to a criminal offence involving moral turpitude. 37. Lack of proper personal appearance, sanitation and cleanliness including proper grooming. 38. Distribution or exhibition of any newspaper, hand-bill, pamphlets or posters within the work premises establishment without prior permission in writing of the Manager.  39. Holding meetings, demonstrations, slogans-shouting etc. within the premises of the works/establishment without prior permission in writing of the Manager.  40. Disclosure by any workman to any unauthorized person of information relating to the company's business or security measures or communicating directly or indirectly to. Any outside party any documents or information which has come into his possession, or which he has secured knowledge in the course of his employment, unless expressly permitted in writing by the Manager. 41. Failure to inform the Management of any notifiable or contagious disease contracted by the workman or any member of his family, e.g. Cholera, Smallpox, Tuberculosis, Leprosy, Diphtheria, Meningitis, Plague, Bacillary, Dysentery, Yellow Fever, Typhoid or Eccentric Fever, Mumps, Measles and any other contagious diseases. 42. Refusal to accept any order or communication from the Management. 43. Purchasing from or selling the Company properties, machinery, stores etc., without the express permission in writing of the Manager. 44. Possession of any lethal weapon in the premises of the works/establishment. 45. Applying or asking or obtaining loans or advances on false pretexts and/or not utilizing them for the purposes for which they were sanctioned and/or not refunding the loan or advance to the Management in the event of the failure of the workman to utilize the same for the purposes for which it was sanctioned.  46. Any conduct on the part of the workman inconsistent or incompatible with the due or faithful discharge of his duties towards the Company/Management. 47. Any breach of the express or implied or incidental duties of a workman. 48. Frequent repetition of any act or omission for which a fine may be imposed under the provisions of any law.  49. Engaging any lottery within the premises of the Company.  50. Smoking in the work premises except at places where smoking is permitted.    
Page 91 of 97  51. Committing any offence within the meaning of the Indian Penal Code within the premises of the Establishment/ Works or outside the premises or committing any act of commission or omission within the premises of the works/establishment or outside, whether amounting to an offence or not, which would tend to have the effect of or result in impairing the reputation, public confidence, discipline or prestige of the Company/Management.  52. Making or publishing false, derogatory, defamatory or malicious statements against the Company/Management or its officers or workmen or its products 53. Conduct in private life prejudicial to the reputation of the Company 54. Preparing false bills or statement of expenditure 55. Remaining in the premises of the Establishment/works after duty hours or during suspension, without obtaining specific permission in writing of the Manager. 56. Habitual indebtedness or insolvency. 57. Any act or omission leading to loss of confidence in the workman. 58. Aiding, abatement of or incitement to commit any act of misconduct. 59. Failure to bring to the notice of the Manager any overpayment(s) of wages/salary/pay made to a workman.  60. Indulging, whether alone or in combination with others, in any unfair labour practice, as defined and illustrated in the Industrial Disputes Act or the Rules made thereunder.  61. Violent demonstration within 100 meters of the precincts of the establishment/works. 62. Working elsewhere during leave or absence. 63. Carrying outside the premises of the works/establishment, books, equipment, apparatus, documents, products and any other property of the Company/Management or relating to the affairs of the Company/Management, unless specifically authorized in writing by the Manager.  64. Entering/leaving or attempting to enter/leave the premises of the establishment/works by force or otherwise not in accordance with the rules of the Company/Management.  65. Failure to observe safety measures/instructions, unauthorized removal, interference with or damage to machinery, guards, fencing and other safety devices. 66. Wearing uniforms whilst of-day, save where specifically permitted in writing by the Manager. 67. Reporting for duties without wearing the uniform provided by the Company or refusal to wear such uniform when so required by the Management or any superior officer.  68. Taking notes, drawings, sketches or photographs of any plant, process or works, except with the specific permission in writing of the Manager.  69. Every workman shall at all times maintain absolute integrity and do nothing which is unbecoming of a workman. Any violation of this norm of behaviour shall constitute misconduct.  70. Leaving the workplace even though within the work premises without permission of the functional Manager. 71. Gossiping with the other workman or singing songs while on duty.      
Page 93 of 97  72. Bringing to the work premises inside the main security gate of the work anything, which is not directly related to the job of the respective workman. 73. Unauthorized use of Company's announcement system or its noticeboard(s). 74. Idling on duty within work premises or neglect of work. 75. Failure to report accident of which workman is a party or witness. 76. Entering places which may be notified to be prohibited areas without permission as may be required and notified. 77. Non-observance of specified quality control systems/checks. 78. Transfer of Identity Card, ESI Contribution Card, Time cards, and Out Pass to another workman or frequent loss thereof. 79. Failure to report the fact of making an application for insolvency or adjudged insolvency within 3 days. 80. Publication of any article related to Official information without the written permission of the Management. 81. Non-return of Company's properties on or before the stipulated period. 82. Clocking any other workmen time card. 83. Habitual. Production of medical certificates. 84. Irregular attendance or habitual late attendance. 85. Remaining in toilets for a longer period of time. 86. Habitual neglect of cleanliness 87. Sexual Harassment which means and includes such unwelcome sexually determined behaviour (whether directly or by implication) as: - ▪ Physical contact or advances. ▪ A demand or request for sexual favours. Sexually coloured remarks. ▪ Showing pornography. ▪ Any or other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of  ▪ Sexual nature ▪ Indulging in or abatement of any act of Sexual harassment within the company premises. 88. Recovery of loss of goods expressly entrusted to the employee or money for which he is accountable. (As per the provisions of Payment of Wages Act). 89. Recovery from his pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused by him to the employer by negligence or breach of orders. (As per the provisions of Payment of Wages Act)      
Page 95 of 97  26.2 ADMINISTRATION OF DISCIPLINARY ACTION Disciplinary Action may be required to improve the effectiveness of employees in given circumstances. But before any penalty or disciplinary action is taken against any employee, due process of investigation will be followed to allow the employee concerned to present his side. The Disciplinary Action will follow the principle of Natural Justice. MINOR MISCONDUCT The Followings penalties may be good and sufficient reasons, be imposed on an employee found guilty of Minor Misconduct: 1. Warning or censure. 2. Making a adverse entry in his service record. 3. Withholding of increment of pay. 4. Recovery of loss of goods expressly entrusted to the employee or money for which he is accountable. (as per the provisions of payment of wages act) 5. Recovery from his pay the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused by him to the employer by negligence or breach of orders. (as per the provisions of payment of wages act)  MAJOR MISCONDUCT  • Appropriate Disciplinary action will be initiated in respect of employee engaging himself in any act of major misconduct, which will include “No work No pay” or any other disciplinary action stipulated under prevailing labour laws, Approved standing order or appointment terms.   27. EMPLOYEE ACKNOLWEDGEMENT: -  This is to acknowledge that I have read & understood the contents of Employee Handbook. During the period of my employment I will follow the said norms to the best of my knowledge and I also commit to be guided by the said Conduct Guidelines and to promote the same to other employees.   I also understand that this handbook in our Internal circulation materials and will not be shared with outsiders. I will give my confirmation separately by signature.    
